the fifth book of Moses called
Deuteronomy these are the words which
Moses spoke to all Israel on this side
of the Jordan in the wilderness in the
plane of assets oof between Paran TOEFL
Laban Hazira and DISA hab it is 11 days
journey from her ed by way of Mount Seir
to Kadesh Barnea
now it came to pass in the fortieth year
in the eleventh month on the first play
of the month that Moses spoke to the
children of Israel according to all that
the Lord had given him as Commandments
to them after he had killed Sihon king
of the amorite s-- who dwelt in heshbon
and ugh
king of bation who dwelt at Ashtaroth in
Adria on this side of the Jordan in the
land of Moab Moses began to explain this
law the Lord our God spoke to us in
Horan saying you have dwelt long enough
at this mountain turn and take your
journey and go to the mountains of the
amorite s' to all the neighboring places
in the plain in the mountains and in the
lowland in the south and on the Seacoast
the land of the canaanites and to
Lebanon as far as the Great River the
river Euphrates see I have set the land
before you go in and possess the land
which the Lord swore to your father's
labor ahem Isaac and Jacob to give to
them and their descendants after them
and I spoke to you at that time saying I
alone am NOT able to bear you the Lord
your God has multiplied you and here you
are today as the stars of heaven and
multitude they the Lord God of your
father's make you a thousand times more
numerous than you are and bless you as
he has promised you how can I alone
they're your problems and your burdens
and your complaints choose wise
understanding and knowledgeable men from
among your tribes and I will make them
heads over you and you answered me and
said the thing which you have told us to
do is good so I took the heads of your
tribes wise and knowledgeable men and
made them heads over you
leaders of thousands leaders of hundreds
leaders of 50s leaders of tens and
officers for your tribes then I
commanded your judges at that time
saying here the cases between your
brethren and judge righteously between a
man and his brother or the stranger who
is with him you shall not show
partiality and judgment you shall hear
the small as well as the great you shall
not be afraid in any man's presence for
the judgement is gods
case that is too hard for you bring to
me and I will hear it and I commanded
you at that time all the things which
you should do so we departed from Horeb
and went through all that great and
terrible wilderness which you saw on the
way to the mountains of the amorite s--
as the Lord our God had commanded us and
we came to Kadesh Barnea and I said to
you you have come to the mountains of
the amorite switch the Lord our God is
giving us look the Lord your God has set
the land before you
[Music]
go up and possess it as the Lord God of
your father's has spoken to you and not
fear or be discouraged and every one of
you came near to me and said let us send
men before us and let them search out
the land for us and bring back word to
us of the way by which we should go up
and of the cities into which we shall
come the plan pleased me well so I took
12 of your men one man from each tribe
and they departed and went up into the
mountains and came to the valley of
Eshcol and spied it out they also took
some of the fruit of the land in their
hands and brought it down to us and they
brought back word to us saying it is a
good land which the Lord our God is
giving us nevertheless you would not go
up but rebelled against the command of
the Lord your God and you complained in
your tents and said because the Lord
hates us he has brought us out of the
land of Egypt to deliver us into the
hand of the amorite stew destroy us
where can we go up our brethren have
discouraged our hearts saying the people
are greater and taller than me the
cities are great and fortified up to
heaven
moreover we have seen the suns of the
Anakim there then I said to you do not
be terrified or afraid of them Lord your
God who goes before you he will fight
for you according to all he did for you
in Egypt before your eyes and in the
wilderness where you saw how the Lord
your God carried you as a man carries
his son in all the way that you went
until you came to this place yet for all
that you did not believe the Lord your
God who went in the way before you to
search out a place for you to pitch your
tents to show you the way you should go
in the fire by night and in the cloud by
day and the Lord heard the sound of your
words and it was angry and took an oath
saying surely not one of these men of
this evil generation shall see that good
land of which I swore to give to your
father's except Caleb the son of
Jephunneh he shall see it and to him and
his children I am giving the land on
which he walked because he wholly
followed the Lord the Lord was also
angry with me for your sakes
saying even you shall not go in there
Joshua the son of nun who stands before
you he shall go in there encourage him
he shall cause Israel to inherit it
moreover your little ones and your
children you say will be victims who
today have no knowledge of good and evil
they shall go in there to them I will
give it and they shall possess it but as
for you turn and take your journey into
the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea
and you answered and said to me we have
sinned against the Lord we will go up
and fight just as the Lord our God
commanded us and when every one of you
they girded on his weapons of war you
were ready to go up into the mountain
and the Lord said to me tell them do not
go up nor fight or I am NOT a mother
lest you be defeated
before you are enemies
so I spoke to you yet you would not
listen but rebelled against the command
of the Lord and presumptuously went up
into the mountain and the amorite suit
welt in that mountain came out against
you and chased you as bees do and drove
you back from seer to hormone then you
returned and wept before the Lord but
the Lord would not listen to your voice
nor give ear to you so you remained in
Kadish many days according to the days
that you spent there
[Music]